# Data
- This folder conatins Water related datasets gatherd from different sources.
- egypt_wapor_by_year: ( Formatted per year) Source: The FAO portal to monitor Water Productivity through Open access of Remotely sensed derived data (WaPOR) contains:
	• Transpiration:
		o The transpiration (T) data component (dekadal, in mm/day) is the actual transpiration of the vegetation canopy.
	• NPP (Net Primary Production):
		o Net Primary Production (NPP) is a fundamental characteristic of an ecosystem, expressing the conversion of carbon dioxide into biomass driven by photosynthesis.
	• GWP (Gross Water Productivity):
		o The annual Gross Biomass Water Productivity expresses the quantity of output (total biomass production) in relation to the total volume of water consumed in the year (actual evapotranspiration).
		o By relating biomass production to total evapotranspiration (sum of soil evaporation, canopy transpiration and interception), this indicator provides insights on the impact of vegetation development on consumptive water use and thus on water balance in a given domain.
		o When the focus is on monitoring performance of irrigated agriculture in relation to water consumption, it is more appropriate to use transpiration alone as a denominator, as a measure of water beneficially consumed by the plant.
		o This latter indicator, for which we use the term "net water productivity", provides useful information on how effectively vegetation (and particularly crops) uses water to develop its biomass (and thus yield).
	• Evaporation:
		o The Evaporation (E) data component (dekadal, in mm/day) is the actual evaporation of the soil surface.
	• ETI (Actual EvapoTranspiration and Interception):
		o The actual EvapoTranspiration and Interception (ETIa) (dekadal, in mm/day) is the sum of the soil evaporation (E), canopy transpiration (T), and evaporation from rainfall intercepted by leaves (I).
	• RET (Reference EvapoTranspiration):
		o Reference EvapoTranspiration (RET) is defined as the evapotranspiration from a hypothetical reference crop and it simulates the behaviour of a well-watered grass surface.
- freshwater_withdrawals_data (formatted per year): conatins Freshwater withdrawals source: https://data.humdata.org/dataset/world-bank-environment-indicators-for-egypt-arab-rep, attributes:
	- Annual freshwater withdrawals total (billion cubic meters)
	- Annual freshwater withdrawals agriculture (% of total freshwater withdrawal)
	- Annual freshwater withdrawals domestic (% of total freshwater withdrawal)
	- Annual freshwater withdrawals industry (% of total freshwater withdrawal)
	- Water productivity total (constant 2010 US$ GDP per cubic meter of total freshwater withdrawal)
- merged_water_dataset_part2 (formatted per year), conatins: 
	- Water Use Efficiency (United States dollars per cubic meter)
	- Level of water stress: freshwater withdrawal as a proportion of available freshwater resources (%)
- Nile annual mean flow contaains annaual river mean flow per year
- water_dataset_part_1, contains data extracted from WAPOR website (Formatted per year), attributes:
	- Climatic Water Deficit-Annual kg/m2: Potential evapotranspiration or PET is a measure of the ability of the atmosphere to remove water from the surface through the processes of evaporation and transpiration assuming no control on water supply. Actual evapotranspiration or AET is the quantity of water that is actually removed from a surface due to the processes of evaporation and transpiration. Climatic Water Deficit is the difference between the potential and the actual evapotranspiration ( PET-AET). PET is defined as the amount of evaporation that would occur if a sufficient water source were available. If the AET is considered the net result of atmospheric demand for moisture from a surface and the ability of the surface to supply moisture, then PET is a measure of the demand side. Surface and air temperatures, insolation, and wind all affect this. A dryland is a place where annual PET exceeds annual precipitation. PET is the amount of water that would be evaporated and transpired if there were sufficient water available. This demand incorporates the energy available for evaporation and the ability of the lower atmosphere to transport evaporated moisture away from the land surface. Potential evapotranspiration is higher in the summer, on less cloudy days, and closer to the equator, because of the higher levels of solar radiation that provides the energy for evaporation. Potential evapotranspiration is also higher on windy days because the evaporated moisture can be quickly moved from the ground or plant surface, allowing more evaporation to fill its place. Potential evapotranspiration is expressed in terms of a depth of water, and can be graphed during the year. PET is usually measured indirectly, from other climatic factors, but also depends on the surface type, such as free water (for lakes and oceans), the soil type for bare soil, and the vegetation
	- Potential Evapotranspiration-Annual kg/m2:  Potential evapotranspiration or PET is a measure of the ability of the atmosphere to remove water from the surface through the processes of evaporation and transpiration assuming no control on water supply. Actual evapotranspiration or AET is the quantity of water that is actually removed from a surface due to the processes of evaporation and transpiration. PET is defined as the amount of evaporation that would occur if a sufficient water source were available. If the AET is considered the net result of atmospheric demand for moisture from a surface and the ability of the surface to supply moisture, then PET is a measure of the demand side. Surface and air temperatures, insolation, and wind all affect this. A dryland is a place where annual PET exceeds annual precipitation. PET is the amount of water that would be evaporated and transpired if there were sufficient water available. This demand incorporates the energy available for evaporation and the ability of the lower atmosphere to transport evaporated moisture away from the land surface. Potential evapotranspiration is higher in the summer, on less cloudy days, and closer to the equator, because of the higher levels of solar radiation that provides the energy for evaporation. Potential evapotranspiration is also higher on windy days because the evaporated moisture can be quickly moved from the ground or plant surface, allowing more evaporation to fill its place. Potential evapotranspiration is expressed in terms of a depth of water, and can be graphed during the year. PET is usually measured indirectly, from other climatic factors, but also depends on the surface type, such as free water (for lakes and oceans), the soil type for bare soil, and the vegetation
	- WaPOR Gross Water Productivity-Annual kg/m3: The annual Gross Biomass Water Productivity expresses the quantity of output (total biomass production) in relation to the total volume of water consumed in the year (actual evapotranspiration). By relating biomass production to total evapotranspiration (sum of soil evaporation, canopy transpiration and interception), this indicator provides insights on the impact of vegetation development on consumptive water use and thus on water balance in a given domain. When the focus is on monitoring performance of irrigated agriculture in relation to water consumption, it is more appropriate to use transpiration alone as a denominator, as a measure of water beneficially consumed by the plant. This latter indicator, for which we use the term "net water productivity", provides useful information on how effectively vegetation (and particularly crops) uses water to develop its biomass (and thus yield).
	- WaPOR Net Primary Production-Annual g/m2: Net Primary Production (NPP) is a fundamental characteristic of an ecosystem, expressing the conversion of carbon dioxide into biomass driven by photosynthesis. The pixel value represents the mean daily NPP for that specific dekad.

	- WaPOR Reference Evapotranspiration-Annual mm: Reference EvapoTranspiration (RET) is defined as the evapotranspiration from a hypothetical reference crop and it simulates the behaviour of a well-watered grass surface. The value of each pixel represents the average of the daily reference evapotranspiration for that specific dekad.
- merged_UNSD_: (formatted by year) contains data extracted from UNSD as Population using water, water extractor, water extraction, water usage and water reneable resource.
- Population supplied by water supply industry Cleaned: (formatted by year) source UNSD, contains potion on population using water, not finished.
- Fresh water renewable resource detailed Cleaned: (formatted by year) source UNSD
- Water Extractors_cleaned: (formatted by year) source UNSD
- Water Usage_cleaned: (formatted by year) source UNSD
- Water Extraction_cleaned: (formatted by year) source UNSD
- Fresh water renewable resource : (formatted by year) source WDI, contain total amout of extracted Fresh water renewable resource per year
